; ===========================
; Chapter 2: Sleepless Night
; ===========================

; Scene: Anna's apartment, late night
changeBg:bg-phone-screen.jpg -next;
bgm:bgm-misty.mp3 -enter=2000 -next;

changeFigure:none -left -next;
changeFigure:none -right -next;
changeFigure:none -next;

changeFigure:char-anna.png -next;

:1 AM. The apartment is quiet. The desk lamp flickers its dim glow across Anna's exhausted face — the dark circles under her eyes now permanent residents. The desk overflows with thesis drafts, textbooks streaked with highlighter, and three stacked ramen cups. The radiator in the corner ticks intermittently.;

changeFigure:none -next;

:She pulls out her phone. The screen still shows the photo she took at the subway station — if you could call it a photo. Just a smear of golden light, no detail at all. But she remembers. She remembers that vending machine perfectly, those impossibly flawless red apples, and the unsettling calm in Emily's eyes.;

changeFigure:char-anna.png -next;

Anna:("Anyone who eats this apple might wake up as a completely different person." What did she mean by that?);

:Anna tosses the phone onto her pillow and lies back on the creaky twin bed, staring at a winding crack on the ceiling.;

Anna:(Become a completely different person... as if the current me is so worth keeping.);

:The thought cracks something open. Everything she spent the day pushing down comes flooding out —;

changeFigure:none -next;

:She thinks of her mother's face at the airport the day she left for New York. Smiling, but with red-rimmed eyes. Her father wasn't there — he couldn't get time off. He'd been pulling double shifts at the factory for six months to cover her first year's living expenses.;

:She remembers her fingers trembling as she signed the student loan papers. A hundred and twenty thousand dollars. The number was so large it felt unreal, like a phone number instead of a debt.;

:She remembers last month's department seminar. Sarah — same cohort — already had two first-author publications and delivered her talk with effortless confidence. Afterward, the advisor told Sarah, "You're on track for a great career," then turned to Anna: "We need to talk about your progress.";

changeFigure:char-anna.png -next;

Anna:(What am I even doing? Do I actually love psychology? Or was it just because when I was filling out college applications, my mom said "psychology sounds respectable"?);

Anna:(No. That's not fair. I did love it once. Sophomore year, I read about cognitive dissonance theory and was so excited I stayed up all night. But now...);

Anna:(Now the word "cognition" makes me nauseous.);

:She sits up and opens her laptop. The thesis document is still there, the cursor blinking in the middle of Chapter 3. Philip's comments line the margins like red scars: "This argument lacks empirical support." "Your foundational hypothesis is fundamentally flawed." "Come see me in my office.";

:Anna's hands rest on the keyboard, but she can't type a single word. The cursor blinks on and on, like a heart waiting for a heartbeat.;

changeFigure:none -next;

:She thinks of Emily. That girl in the subway station, eating an apple with a face as calm as still water. And the people Emily mentioned — the ones who ate the apple and "changed.";

:What kind of person buys an unmarked apple from a vending machine in a midnight subway station? And what kind of person becomes "completely different" after eating one?;

changeFigure:char-anna.png -next;

Anna:(If those apples really have some kind of... power, what exactly do they change? Do they help you see something clearly, or do they make you forget?);

Anna:(Emily said "you can only see this platform when you need it" — so am I someone who "needs" that machine? What do I even need?);

Anna:(... Forget it. I can't even finish my own thesis.);

:Her phone buzzes, cutting off the thought. A message from her mother.;

changeFigure:none -next;

:"Sweetheart, how's the thesis going? Your dad got his checkup results back from last month — everything's fine. Don't worry about us. Focus on your studies. Good night.";

:Anna stares at the message for a long time.;

changeFigure:char-anna.png -next;

:She knows what "everything's fine" means. It means her father's knee is acting up again but he doesn't want her to know. It means her mother is skimping on meals but insists "we have everything we need." It means they've compressed all their expectations into one breezy "don't worry about us.";

Anna:(Don't worry about you... how can I not worry? I'm here burning through every penny you scraped together, and I can't even finish a single paper.);

:Her eyes sting. She types a few words — "Mom, the thesis is going great, don't worry" — and hits send.;

Anna:(When did I start lying to my family as a reflex?);

:She flips the phone face-down on the desk. Closes the laptop. Walks to the window. Most of the lights across the street are off, but a few windows still glow — maybe another grad student pulling a late night, maybe another person who can't sleep.;

changeFigure:none -next;

:4 AM. New York is silent outside the window, broken only by the occasional distant siren. Anna doesn't close the curtains. She collapses onto the bed fully clothed.;

:Her mind cycles through the same images: the bright yellow vending machine, the flawless red apples, the look on Emily's face when she said "you can only see this platform when you need it," and the period at the end of her mother's message.;

:At some point, a line of gray-white creeps along the horizon outside the window. She finally sinks into an exhausted sleep. In her dream there is an apple tree, and someone sits beneath it, drawing.;

; End scene, transition to lab
changeScene:ch2_lab.txt;
